TODO.md, before:

give each residue a chain index

some residues have no coordinates (esp in the middle of the chain): just ignore those residue
- this means you need to modify your nan-removing code / think of a new way to deal with that
write documentation

AAindex as extra features for AA embedding?

figure out why the net nans sometimes

600_rms_term1_edge+node-query (done)
600_rms_term1 (done)
600-2600_rms_term1 
600-2600_term1
600-2600_rms_term4 (done)
600-2600_term4
600_rms_term4_edge+node-query
600-2600_term4_edge+node-query

run more designs on the small complexes database Sebastian makes
implement composite psuedolikelihood

check if dropout is along what axis in structured transformer (i.e. does it just dropout random values or entire edges)

implementation for complexes (distance between residues in diff chains is inf)
    data augmentation: randomize chain assignments, or make chain identity invariant
    fine-tuning on specific interfaces i.e. antibodies
    idea: feed extra data e.g. net knows if constituients need to be soluable on their own

at some point
    look into CATH train/test splits, probably towards the end

backup files to c3ddb

measure perplexity (***)

increase model complexity to see how it does, or just feed it more data

update google slides architectures diagram
add regularization?

if i split a protein into two, does it still output a very similar potts model?

prioritize running the model on more data!!!

include target phi,psi,omega,env for native protein
add gaussian noise to coordinates as data augmentation?

check amino acid embeddings
see what parts of the net is necessary
check TERM matches data leakage

send vikram path to run_7000_cpl_term1_tanh run
automatic experiment recording

drop the sequence input from net 1?



energies archs
- mpnn (node then edge)
- mpnn (node, then edge is derived from 2nodes + edges through ffn)
- attention (node edge alternation)
- attention (node then edge)
- attention (node, then edge is derived from 2node + edges through ffn)
- increase energies dimensionality from 32 to 64?
- increase num layers from 3 to 6 (currently doing)
- can i get GVP up and running?

matches transformer
- embed target info in only pool token

- ablate TERM graph prop (does that actually do much?)


objective: average nlcpl over all residue pairs in a batch rather than per protein



TODO 3/24/21:
- run per-res nlcpl (in progress)
- run semi-shuffle
- run gvp
- run 6 layers h128


ablate coordinates

TODO 7/12/21:

get GVP working and run TERMinator with GVP (replace struct2seq with GVP)

ablate singleton embeddings

ablate pairwise embeddings

ablate TERM graph propagation (delete it and linearize it)

model performance varies as a function of TERM matches

replace Potts model with most likely sequence

interpretability (integrated gradients)

Commit message:

update TODO with current progress

TODO.md, after:

give each residue a chain index

some residues have no coordinates (esp in the middle of the chain): just ignore those residue
- this means you need to modify your nan-removing code / think of a new way to deal with that
write documentation

AAindex as extra features for AA embedding?

figure out why the net nans sometimes

600_rms_term1_edge+node-query (done)
600_rms_term1 (done)
600-2600_rms_term1 
600-2600_term1
600-2600_rms_term4 (done)
600-2600_term4
600_rms_term4_edge+node-query
600-2600_term4_edge+node-query

run more designs on the small complexes database Sebastian makes
implement composite psuedolikelihood

check if dropout is along what axis in structured transformer (i.e. does it just dropout random values or entire edges)

implementation for complexes (distance between residues in diff chains is inf)
    data augmentation: randomize chain assignments, or make chain identity invariant
    fine-tuning on specific interfaces i.e. antibodies
    idea: feed extra data e.g. net knows if constituients need to be soluable on their own

at some point
    look into CATH train/test splits, probably towards the end

backup files to c3ddb

measure perplexity

increase model complexity to see how it does, or just feed it more data

update google slides architectures diagram
add regularization?

if i split a protein into two, does it still output a very similar potts model?

prioritize running the model on more data!!!

include target phi,psi,omega,env for native protein
add gaussian noise to coordinates as data augmentation?

check amino acid embeddings
see what parts of the net is necessary
check TERM matches data leakage

send vikram path to run_7000_cpl_term1_tanh run
automatic experiment recording

drop the sequence input from net 1?



energies archs
- mpnn (node then edge)
- mpnn (node, then edge is derived from 2nodes + edges through ffn)
- attention (node edge alternation)
- attention (node then edge)
- attention (node, then edge is derived from 2node + edges through ffn)
- increase energies dimensionality from 32 to 64?
- increase num layers from 3 to 6 (currently doing)
- can i get GVP up and running?

matches transformer
- embed target info in only pool token

- ablate TERM graph prop (does that actually do much?)


objective: average nlcpl over all residue pairs in a batch rather than per protein



TODO 3/24/21:
- run per-res nlcpl (in progress)
- run semi-shuffle
- run gvp
- run 6 layers h128


ablate coordinates

TODO 7/12/21:

get GVP working and run TERMinator with GVP (replace struct2seq with GVP)

ablate singleton embeddings **[in progress: alexjli]**

ablate pairwise embeddings **[in progress: alexjli]**

ablate TERM graph propagation (delete it and linearize it) **[linearize in progress: alexjli]**

model performance varies as a function of TERM matches

replace Potts model with most likely sequence

interpretability (integrated gradients)
